Updating docs to explain how composition merges types under the hood (union and intersection) (#1839)
apollographql/federation: docs/source/federated-types/composition.mdx

If you make a shared type an [entity](../entities/), different subgraphs can define any number of different fields for that type, as long as they all define **key fields** for it.

This is a useful solution when a type corresponds closely to an entry in a data store that one or more of your subgraphs has access to (e.g., a `Users` database).

## Merging types from multiple subgraphs

If a particular GraphQL type is defined _differently_ by different subgraphs, composition uses one of two strategies to merge those definitions: **union** or **intersection**.

> * **Union**: The supergraph schema includes _all_ parts of _all_ subgraph definitions for the type. 

Reviewer: The downside of structuring it this way is that you never really have the opportunity to talk about the "why" of the reason each strategy is employed. In the case of input object types, we use intersection because it allows us to guarantee that no subgraph ever has to deal with input that it didn't expect. In the case of output types, it's safe to compose all the different options together because you don't have the restriction the same way you do with input validation.

Author: So, we do have one sentence in the "Input types and field arguments" section mentioning the logic behind the intersection strategy:

> Composition _always_ uses the intersection strategy to merge input types and field arguments. This ensures that the gateway _never_ passes an argument to a subgraph that doesn't define that argument.

Would you like me to add some more emphasis on this point, @clenfest?

Author: If not, @StephenBarlow can you merge this? (I don't have write access) 

I can also always add more context to this later if folks need it! :)

Reviewer 2: @rkoron007 Build is currently failing for unrelated reasons 🤔 I will explore in a bit and we can get this merged!

Reviewer 3: Running `npm run codegen` and checking in the subsequent changed files should fix the build. I don't mind doing that, let me know (didn't want to step on toes if you're already on it).

Reviewer 3: Oh! I think I've done that previously. Might be best to merge the latest from `main`.

Author: Thank you @benweatherman! Did as you suggested, and it looks like everything should be good to go now @StephenBarlow ✨

* **Intersection:** The supergraph schema includes _only_ the parts of the type that are present in _every_ subgraph that defines the type.

The merging strategy that composition uses for a particular type depends on the type, as described below.

### Object, union, and interface types

Composition _always_ uses the union strategy to merge object, union, and interface types.

Consider the following subgraph schemas:

<CodeColumns>

```graphql title="Subgraph A"
type User @key(fields: "id") {
  id: ID!
  name: String!
  email: String!
}

union Media = Book | Movie

interface BookDetails {
  title: String!
  author: String!
}
```

```graphql title="Subgraph B"
type User @key(fields: "id") {
  id: ID!
  age: Int!
}

union Media = Book | Podcast

interface BookDetails {
  title: String!
  numPages: Int
}
```

> <></>

Reviewer: Is this intentional?

Author: Oh nope—I'll remove those thank you!

</CodeColumns>

> When these subgraph schemas are composed, the composition process merges the three corresponding types using the union strategy. This results in the following type definitions in the supergraph schema:

Reviewer: General comment that occurs in multiple places. This may just be my personal taste, but I find "using the union strategy" to be a little clunky. I would personally go with "merge by union" or "by union". Probably a matter of taste, so feel free to ignore.

If you make a shared type an [entity](../entities/), different subgraphs can define any number of different fields for that type, as long as they all define **key fields** for it.

This is a useful solution when a type corresponds closely to an entry in a data store that one or more of your subgraphs has access to (e.g., a `Users` database).

## Merging types from multiple subgraphs

If a particular GraphQL type is defined _differently_ by different subgraphs, composition uses one of two strategies to merge those definitions: **union** or **intersection**.

* **Union**: The supergraph schema includes _all_ parts of _all_ subgraph definitions for the type. 
* **Intersection:** The supergraph schema includes _only_ the parts of the type that are present in _every_ subgraph that defines the type.

The merging strategy that composition uses for a particular type depends on the type, as described below.

### Object, union, and interface types

Composition _always_ uses the union strategy to merge object, union, and interface types.

> Consider the following subgraph schema excerpts:

Reviewer 2: My previous edit of this was unnecessarily pedantic so I'm walking it back 🤪

> Note that if different subgraphs contribute different fields to an interface type, any object types that _implement_ that interface must define _all_ contributed fields from _all_ subgraphs. Otherwise, composition fails.

### Input types and field arguments

Composition _always_ uses the intersection strategy to merge input types and field arguments. This makes sure that the gateway never passes an argument to a subgraph that doesn't define that argument.

Consider the following subgraph schemas:

<CodeColumns>

```graphql title="Subgraph A"
input UserInput {
  name: String!
  age: Int
}

type Library @shareable {
  book(title: String, author: String): Book
}
```

```graphql title="Subgraph B"
input UserInput {
  name: String!
  email: String
}

type Library @shareable {
  book(title: String, section: String): Book
}

```

</CodeColumns>

These subgraphs define different fields for the `UserInput` input type, and they define different arguments for the `Library.book` field. After composition uses the intersection strategy, the supergraph schema definitions look like this:

```graphql title="Supergraph schema"
input UserInput {
  name: String!
}

type Library {

>   # field arguments are composed via the intersection merging strategy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: I think we're safe to cut this comment

  findBook(title: String): Book
}
```

As you can see, the supergraph schema includes only the input fields and arguments that _both_ subgraphs define.

> ⚠️ **Important:** If the intersection strategy would omit an input field or argument that is _non-nullable_, **composition fails**. This is because at least one subgraph _requires_ that field or argument, and the gateway can't provide it if it's omitted from the supergraph schema.
>
> When defining input types and field arguments in multiple subgraphs, make sure that every non-nullable field and argument is consistent in _every subgraph_. For examples, see [Arguments](sharing-types#arguments).

### Enums

Composition might use the union strategy _or_ the intersection strategy when merging enum type definitions, _depending on how the enum is used_. 

```mermaid
graph TB;

>     parent("Is the enum used as the type for a field argument or input type field?");

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    enum("Is the enum used as the type for at least<br/>one field argument or input type field?");
```

Reviewer 2: We can throw a line break into a mermaid bubble so it doesn't end up quite so wide

Author: I didn't know you could do that! 😲 Thank you!

>     parent--No-->null("Union");

Reviewer 2: These nodes can be named anything in mermaid, so just renaming them to better represent what they mean

>     parent--Yes-->call("Intersection");

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    enum--Yes-->intersection("Intersection");
```

```

If your enum is **not** used as the type of a field argument or input type field, then composition uses the [union merging strategy](#merging-types-from-multiple-subgraphs).

> Consider the following subgraph schema excerpts:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Consider the following subgraph schemas:
```

<CodeColumns>

```graphql title="Subgraph A"
enum Color {
  RED
  GREEN
  BLUE
}
```

```graphql title="Subgraph B"
enum Color {
  RED
  CYAN
  MAGENTA
  YELLOW
}
```

</CodeColumns>

When these subgraph schemas are composed, composition merges the `Color` enum using the union strategy. This results in the following type definition in the supergraph schema:

```graphql title="Supergraph schema"
enum Color {
  RED
  GREEN
  BLUE
  CYAN
  MAGENTA
  YELLOW
}
```

If you use an enum as _either_ a field argument or an input field's return type in at least one of your subgraphs, composition uses the [intersection merging strategy](#merging-types-from-multiple-subgraphs). 

> Let's say we add a new field to "Subgraph A" that uses our `Color` enum as a field argument:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's say we add a new field to Subgraph A that uses our `Color` enum as a field argument:
```

```graphql title="Subgraph A"
enum Color {
  RED
  GREEN
  BLUE
}

type ColorQuery {
  avatar(borderColor: Color): String
}
```

> When the "Subgraph A" and "Subgraph B" schemas are composed, composition now uses the _intersection_ strategy to merge the `Color` enum:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now when composition runs, it uses the _intersection_ strategy to merge the `Color` enum:
```

type Library @shareable {
  findBook(title: String, author: String): Book
}
```

```graphql title="Subgraph B"
input UserInput {
  name: String!
  email: String
}

type Library @shareable {
  findBook(title: String, section: String): Book
}

```

</CodeColumns>

The intersection merging strategy only incorporates the matching fields between input types. This means any `input` field that isn't in every subgraph gets left out of the supergraph schema. The same is true for field arguments:

```graphql title="Supergraph schema"
input UserInput {
  name: String!
}

type Library {
  # field arguments are composed via the intersection merging strategy
  findBook(title: String): Book
}
```

> When defining input types and field arguments in multiple subgraphs, ensure that every non-nullable field (and field argument) is consistent in _every subgraph_. Otherwise, if any subgraphs are missing a non-nullable input field (or field argument) your supergraph schema won't contain that field! See [Arguments](sharing-types#arguments) for examples.  

The intersection strategy ensures your gateway knows that all of your subgraphs can process the field arguments in an incoming GraphQL operation. 

> ### Merging enums

Reviewer 2: I think we can get away with shortening this section, hopefully with the benefit of clarifying the two situations more quickly. I recommend we add a really small mermaid flowchart that's just

**Is the enum used as the type of at least one field argument or input type field?**

**No**: Union
**Yes**: Intersection

And then just use a single pair of subgraphs to illustrate those two outcomes
